---
layout: post
title: "Week Two: Docker and Containers"
---

## Last week
The work I completed in the last week was to attempt to containerize my code with Docker. Like with REST APIs, I went through a LinkedIn Learning course, and created a couple of Hello World containers and simple Server images. If anyone has heard about Docker and containers but doesn't understand their usefulness or purpose, let me provide you with a quick summary: Docker containers help to handle dependencies and package up code so that it can run consistently across any machine. For example, let's say I have a Python project that uses the TensorFlow library - if I have TensorFlow on my machine and you don't, and we both attempt to run my project, then it will fail on your machine. Containerizing the code would prevent this by including necessary dependencies and specifications within the container. For web applications, this can be done with JavaScript/Node containers so that applications. 

I did manage to get a simple "Hello World" API up and running with both Python/Flask and JavaScript/Node, so in the coming weeks, I hope to build from that and meaningfully implement the API that my project needs. 

## Impediments
The main impediment to my progress remains the multitude of new tools and technologies this project attempts to expose me to. Docker is one of them. It's so much new material, which I'm happy to explore, but it remains time consuming. 

I've still yet to resolve the question of whether my API ought to be a Python/Flask-based API or a JavaScript/Node-based one. I don't have experience with Flask, but it's just another Python library. JavaScript is an entirely new language to me. 

One side effect of exposing myself to new tools is scope creep emerging in a strange way. In learning new tools and devoting enough time to learning them, I could pursue a certification in them, and have something else to put on my resume. That's a good thing in itself, obviously, but it's not the goal of this project. 

## Looking Ahead
The next bit of project work on the horizon is to build out and test my API so that it has some basic endpoints, and can generate JSON request/response pairs. Aside from that, in the absence of an actual IOT device (at least for the moment), I need to build my C++ client that can make requests to my API. 

## Process Review
I do need to be cognizant of the scope creep I alluded to earlier. Certifications can be resume boosters, but this project too is meant to be a portfolio piece to show off and talk about. I did attempt to budget time for learning in my project estimation. As I learn more, it seems the requirements aren't terribly ambitious; it's just a fact that being exposed to a deluge of unfamiliar tools is slow going. 

How can I address this? Perhaps some fast prototypes would help. Making many mistakes quickly might help solidify the workflow to successfully integrate the technologies.
